pip install face_recognition
pip install firebase_admin
pip install paho-mqtt
pip install opencv-python




Face Recognition Project with ESP32 and Raspberry Pi
This project utilizes ESP32 and Raspberry Pi for face recognition, storing images in Firebase cloud storage. It involves capturing images, recognizing faces using machine learning algorithms, and communicating with ESP32 via MQTT for real-time updates. Below are the details for setup and usage:

Requirements:
Python 3.x
Dependencies:
face_recognition
firebase_admin
paho-mqtt
opencv-python
Install the dependencies using the following command:
pip install face_recognition firebase_admin paho-mqtt opencv-python
Setup:
Raspberry Pi Setup:

Ensure Raspberry Pi is connected to the internet.
Install Python dependencies using the provided requirements.txt file.
Configure Firebase credentials by placing the credentials.json file in the project directory.
ESP32 Setup:

Connect ESP32 to the same network as Raspberry Pi.
Update the MQTT broker address and other parameters in the code as per your setup.
Usage:
Training the Model:

Run train_model.py script to train the face recognition model.
This script processes images from the dataset folder and generates encodings stored in encodings.pickle.
Running Facial Recognition:

Execute facial_recognition.py on Raspberry Pi to start the face recognition process.
Ensure ESP32 is powered on and connected to the network for real-time updates.
Repository Structure:
train_model.py: Script for training the face recognition model.
facial_recognition.py: Script for running face recognition on Raspberry Pi.
credentials.json: Firebase credentials required for authentication.
encodings.pickle: Serialized file containing facial encodings and associated names generated by the training script.
dataset/: Folder containing images for training the model.
Contributing:
Contributions to enhance the functionality and usability of this face recognition project are welcome. Feel free to contribute, report issues, or suggest improvements to make recognizing faces smarter and more efficient together! 
